All right, so what we have now then
is the shape that we're looking for.
Now we can start to think about exactly
how wide do we want these columns,
and how tall do we want these rows.
And the best way to go about doing this
is to go get in there with some kind
of pixel-based ruler and go measure
the dimensions of all of these squares.
It is really tedious and
I'm very happy to tell you do not have to
do that I have done that work for you.
So, now we'll go back and
add that information that's gonna
describe exactly how big and wide our
columns are and how tall our rows are.
And the the syntax that we use to do that,
it's gonna go up here on our wrapper.
So on the grid container on the parent,
it's gonna go right after
we have our display grid, we have
our gap and we can now add to this.
How many columns are we gonna have?
This is grid-template-columns.
So we're telling grid exactly how many
columns that we're going to have here.
Usually when people write this type
of code, they specify this first,
I wanted to put the emphasis
on the numbers first.
So we did that now we're coming back and
entering how many columns we have here.
So as my measurements have deduced, and
I've done this in pixels because we want
these to match up as closely
as possible to the painting.
These numbers are 124 pixels,
376 pixels, and 42 pixels.
So you can just using this
grid template columns syntax,
you can line up however many
dimensions that you want.
For however many columns that you want,
and grid will do this
particular type of layout.
So you can have different widths for
those columns.
You can have different units of measure
for these columns if you wanted.
Here I've used all pixels but
I could have messed it up.
I could have done some rems,
I could have done some percents,
I could have done M's and there's a couple
of other units we'll talk about later.
So that gets us a little bit closer
in terms of our rows and such,
or in terms of our columns and such.
So now we can do the same thing
with our rows, grid-template-rows,
and the numbers here would be 170 pixels,
210 pixels, 61 pixels, and 61 pixels.
The lining up here isn't exactly perfect.
Remember that this started as a painting
done by a human not by a robot.
And so Mondrian has things just
slightly off but we get pretty,
pretty close to the painting layout here.
So as you see now we have all of our
cells more or less on top of each other.
You'll do notice that we have a bit of a
gap over here to the side of letter c and
that is because that is way gaps work.
So we've got gaps all
around just like that.
And, now we can start to fill in these
cells with the appropriate colors.
So the easiest way to do
this is the following.
Here right again on the wrapper,
I'm gonna set a background color of black.
Which will make it very hard to
see what we're doing exactly but
that will wind up filling in that grid gap
area, with the black lines in between.
And then,
Now all we need to do is the following.
Here on our div, we can get rid
of this opacity part of this.
So that makes things pop
out quite a bit more, and
then all we need to do is
assign our various colors.
So here and
letter c which is the big red box,
our background color.
Using an eyedropper tool,
I determine the exact state of red.
This is de271d.
So that'll give us a big red box, yes?
>> The gap automatically adds to
all sides or all after the first?
I don't see a gap on the far left.
>> Yes, all after the first
exactly as you see here, yep.
And then here for letter d,
we have a background color,
Of 015ca0.
If you want of course you can just use the
red, blue, and yellow, that's okay too.
And then down here in letter g,
we have a background color of ecdb6b,
that is the shade of yellow.
And then the last little bit of weirdness
that you see here is from our background
image, we can get rid of that.
So that's up here on our wrapper around
line number 5, get rid of that background.
And we have something approximating
the painting here by Mondrian, all right?
That is something you would not be
able to do with Flexbox for sure.
Any questions on this
basic basics of grid and
how this starts to work in
terms of layout, any questions?
>> Can that last gap be reset
like with margin and last child?
>> I don't think you can use last
child specifically with the gap but
you could try.
The gap gets set on the parent so it's on
the wrapper, not on the individual cell.
So I'm not sure that that is
necessarily going to work.
Good idea, though